"Caduceus" by Mala Costraca

The ocean is a backdrop which is everywhere.
When play begins, say "Reclaim the caduceus if you dare."

A man can be awake, asleep, near death or passed away.
The description of the ocean is "A storm will come this day."

The caduceus is inside an ornate chest of crimson red.
The description is "An artifact that's said to wake the dead,
but the tale says men who touch it will sleep eternally."
Instead of waving the caduceus:
	end the story finally.

The Ship's Deck is a room. It contains an old gangplank.
"There's been no sign of the crewmen since all the cargo sank."

The gangplank is not portable. "The gangplank stands nearby."
A person can be reckless, brave, hysterical or shy.

Inside from the Ship's Deck is the office of the cap'n.
Instead of going inside:
	say "No entry."; stop the action.

The captain is a man. Men are usually brave.
Instead of listening to the ocean, say "Gulls and crashing waves."

Instead of pushing the gangplank when the captain is awake:
	say "The captain comes out seething. This was a mistake.
	You both leap to the side as something plummets from the sky.
	As the captain sees the chest, he narrows his one eye.";
	now the ornate chest is on the Ship's Deck; move the captain
	to the Ship's Deck; say "'Stop what you're doing!'"; stop the action.

The ornate chest is openable, closed and fixed in place.
Instead of examining yourself, say "Your unease shows on your face."

Understand "treasure" or "riches" as the ornate chest.
The description is "It must have fallen down from the crow's nest."

The description of the captain is "The captain looks a wreck.
[if the captain is asleep]He's lying curled up on the deck."

Every turn when the caduceus can be seen by the awake captain:
		try the captain taking the caduceus;
		say "The witch said this would happen."

Instead of someone taking the caduceus:
	if the actor is an awake man:
		now the actor is asleep;
		say "All according to your plan.
		The captain moves to grab his prize, but just like in the tale,
		he falls asleep and the treasure drops."
The player is female.
